---
layout: post
title:      "The In-Between"
date:       2020-05-29 23:01:37 +0000
permalink:  the_in-between
---


Some people grow up knowing exactly what they want to do. I knew that I didn’t want to choose. I had so many interests, so many things that fascinated me about the world. How could I favor just one? Now, over the years, I’ve come to understand the beauty of specialization. The profound advantage of deep and nuanced understanding of a particular subject cannot be overstated. But what I’ve also (thankfully) come to understand is that specialization, or deep entrenchment in one peculiar subject, can blind you in a way. I’ve had a lot of incredible opportunities to broaden my experience in life (flying planes, teaching English as a second language, working as a professional cellist on a cruise ship, managing a restaurant, etc.), and each thing I have dived into has taught me something about the previous thing and prepared me in some way for the next. The in-between, the space that exists in the distance from one subject to another, holds so much. 

Over the years, I’ve had a lot of different jobs in a variety of fields, but my career for the last 10 years has been in the world of coffee. Most people don’t think of coffee as a career. People’s primary point of access to the industry is through the barista. Baristas are usually transient, occupying that space until their next “real” opportunity comes along. But the second I became a barista, I knew I had to find a way to make coffee a sustainable career for myself. And for the most part, I’ve been pretty successful in that pursuit! I’ve gone from customer facing to education to management to production and back around a couple of times, and though I know for a fact that coffee can be a career that lasts a lifetime, it is not an easy path to choose. [In 2018, there were an estimated 1.7 million coffee related jobs in the United States](https://books.google.com/books?id=r557DwAAQBAJ&pg=PA712&lpg=PA712&dq=in+2018,+there+were+an+estimated+1+7+million+coffee+related+jobs+in+the+united+states&source=bl&ots=FMWQLjc5OP&sig=ACfU3U1WNa1CWZCzwDd6jSHE31-GZktuTA&hl=en) and a higher than normal rate of growth in the field. Not bad! But a majority of that growth is happening at the very lowest end of the field where it can be extremely difficult to make a living. 

So for the last year, I have been searching for a career path that would be engaging, has a high rate of growth and plenty of jobs, while still offering me opportunities for constant personal growth and creative thought. Boasting over [4.2 million jobs nationwide (in 2019)](https://www.bls.gov/news.release/jolts.nr0.htm) and an even higher growth rate than coffee, software engineering has made its way to the top of my list. Once I started consuming the free online resources that are so widely available in an attempt to teach myself what I could, I quickly saw that this was a career that I could truly enjoy. 

So here I am! I couldn’t be more excited for the next ten months of my life. Working full time and going to school part time (while trying to quell the ever growing stress of a global pandemic) is going to be a challenge, I know, but it is one that I am wholeheartedly accepting. I know that the next ten months are going to teach me a lot about software engineering (obviously), but I have no doubt that, on a daily basis, I will learn something new about coffee, about aviation, about music, and perhaps most importantly, about myself.

